README.md, before:

# Summarize and Tidy Up the UCI "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones" Data Set

This repository is my attempt at the peer-graded assignment "Getting and
Cleaning Data Course Project" from the John Hopkins Data Science Specialization
on Coursera.

* [Original source of the data
  set](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones)

## Files in this Repository

* `README.md`: Describes the purpose and the contents of this repository
* `run_analysis.R`: Generates a tidied up and summarized data set from the
  original UCI data set

    * generates `summary.txt`

* CodeBook.txt: This code book describes the data set generated by
  `run_analysis.R` and the process behind

## `run_analysis.R` Abstract Process

The detailed process is described in the code book. Also the script contains
comments to guide you through the transformations applied.

1. Download the data set and decompress it

2. Perform transformations as described in the code book

3. Write the summarized and tidied up data set to `summary.txt`

Commit message:

restructure code book and readme

README.md, after:

# Summarize and Tidy Up the UCI "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones" Data Set

This repository is my attempt at the peer-graded assignment "Getting and
Cleaning Data Course Project" from the John Hopkins Data Science Specialization
on Coursera.

* [Original source of the data
  set](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones)

## Files in this Repository

* `README.md`: Describes the purpose and the contents of this repository
* `run_analysis.R`: Generates a tidied up and summarized data set from the
  original UCI data set

    * generates `summary.txt`

* CodeBook.txt: This code book describes the data set generated by
  `run_analysis.R`

## `run_analysis.R`: Transformations on the Original Data Set

1. Download the data set and decompress it

2. Merge the training and the test data.

3. Rename the columns according to the `features.txt`.

4. Filter only the columns regarding the mean and the standard deviation.

5. Aggregate the mean of the features measurements over the activity and the
   performing subject.

6. Transform the table using the activities as column names (variables).

7. Rename the columns with descriptive names using the lowercase labels from
   `activity_labels.txt` with all characters except a-z stripped out.

8. Write the summarized and tidied up data set to `summary.txt`
